[Music]
so one of my new year's resolutions this
year was to work out regularly and bulk
up I'm not gonna lie to you
I don't spend every evening at the gym
but when I do go there I work super hard
and still don't see any results how come
I decided to consult a professional
fitness trainer and he asked me three
questions are your workouts irregular do
you try to work two or more muscle
groups on one day do you often get on
this or that machine just because it's
free how did he know I was doing all of
the three things he brought up a lot of
people especially beginners have a
rather vague understanding of what
muscle groups are and why a full body
workout isn't always the best solution
there are six major muscle groups that
you can work chest back arms shoulders
legs and calves you don't want them to
be out of proportion so you shouldn't
overwork or under work any of them and
because your body is a tricky system
even things that seem totally unrelated
in fact are connected larger muscles
rely on smaller ones when you're doing
chest presses not only your pectorals
work hard but also your shoulders and
triceps and so is every exercise this
way is so important to combine them
wisely
now the trainer told me to make your
muscles happy it can bulk up faster you
got to remember the three ideal
combinations according to muscle type of
movement when you group the muscles
right you won't miss any weak spots and
will eventually spread all your strength
and range of motion so the ideal option
is a three day split day one is for your
chest shoulders and triceps they are
also called the push muscles because
they contract when you push something
away from your body the major muscles in
this combination are the chest shoulders
and pectorals and the smaller muscles
are the triceps so no matter what
exercises for your chest muscles you
choose they will also make triceps work
hard because they are related in this
way it's a good idea to work them out on
one day you can try shoulder and chest
press
dips for the chest overhead press and
reverse and close grip bench press or
cable crossovers for your triceps good
old push-ups also work their magic they
can help you get a better posture and
get stronger overall to make it more
effective go through day one routine
twice a week so if you're day one was
Monday you can repeat it on Thursday or
Friday on day two you work out your back
and biceps they are the opposite of push
muscles they contract when you pull way
closer to your body and extend when the
weight moves away it's a good idea to
work them out together because biceps
are smaller and support the larger
muscles of your back pull down exercises
are what you need for this group
barbells overhead bicep curls and cable
pulleys will be perfect they are all
great because they are effective and
safe you really can't go wrong with them
your back works and your biceps contract
to help the elbow move it's just what
you need and with barbells it's easy to
progress just by adding extra weight you
can also try weight training exercises
like deadlifts on this day deadlifts
helped burning fat give you a better
posture stronger back and a more stable
core as well as increase hormone levels
no they won't make you emotional like a
five-year-old but they will help produce
some extra testosterone and growth
hormone which means your muscles will
grow faster and just like with chest day
you'd better repeat this twice a week if
you want to bulk up faster day 3 is a
perfect time to take care of your
hamstrings calves and glutes in other
words it's a leg day all of the muscles
I named are on the back of your leg and
you wouldn't be able to move your hips
and knees without them hamstrings help
flex the knee joints during squats
calves point your toes and lift your
heels and glutes
support your hamstrings and biceps and
if that doesn't sound important enough
just imagine if you overwork your upper
body but don't pay enough attention to
your legs it will look well quite
disproportionate a big muscley trunk
with some skinny legs that's definitely
not what I want
so start with leg presses for a warm-up
they make your quads do their job and
help your glutes and hamstrings get
stronger leg curls are another great
hamstring exercise as you work this
muscle group you're improving your
balance stamina and overall strength and
the stronger you get the more exercises
you'll be able to endure on your weight
or a bulkier you don't forget to treat
your calves as well not so many people
pay attention to theirs but in fact
stronger calves boost your entire lower
body performance so by doing calf
extensions you are preparing yourselves
to rock squats and deadlifts to more
great leg exercises again to make it all
more effective repeat leg day sometime
later during the week okay so now I have
an idea of what muscles to work out
together and why but I'm just wondering
is it a fixed order or can I make some
variations to spice things up the
trainer says it's okay to experiment you
can start your week with leg day then
work out your back and biceps and finish
off with chest shoulders and triceps
it's really important that you give
yourself a one day break when you've
completed all three sets in any order
better yet you can even space out
trainings with a rest day after each
workout day you won't repeat each day
twice within one week but you'll do
yourself a lot of good
how can resting be of any good except
that it's my personal favorite part of
any workout in fact resting is a big
part of any training schedule especially
when your goal is to build the muscles
of your dreams first of all your muscles
use those rest periods as a chance to
develop heal over any temporary damage
you've caused them while training and
grow some new tissue secondly fitness
isn't just about lifting weights because
you are physically strong enough to do
it it's also about your interest and
motivation when you're physically
exhausted and dragged yourself to the
gym you won't achieve much but when you
give yourself a break and come back
energized your workout can be way more
intensive and useful also when you're
exhausted but still determined to finish
the workout you often just rush through
the number of reps you need
your technique isn't the best at such
moments and you can slow down your own
progress or even injure yourself one
more really important thing even though
the set seems straightforward take it
moderately start off of the basics and
slowly move toward more advanced things
four to five exercises for one body part
will be enough if you do more than that
you can overwork the muscles when you
are doing exercises with weights start
small and increase the weight gradually
always add a period of rest between sets
but don't make it too long fifteen to
thirty seconds is enough so I guess I
can say I know the secret behind a
perfect workout system for the muscles
it's not about just working hard it's
about working smart now my only problem
is to invent a new New Year's resolution
because it looks like I'll be done with
a bulk up soon enough hey if you learned
something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of lies